So far we have described
the three steps we need
to use image features
for autonomous
vehicle applications.
We also mentioned that
feature matchers are not
very robust to outliers.
In this lesson, we will describe
what outliers are
and how they might
affect our usage of
image features to solve
real-world problems.
We will also provide
a powerful method to handle
outliers called random
sample consensus,
or RANSAC for short.
This method will help us account
for and eliminate outliers,
as they can have
a strong negative impact on
the use of features in
other perception tasks.
But first, let us
introduce the use of
the three-step feature
extraction framework
for the real-world problem
of vehicle localization.
Our localization problem is
defined as follows: given
any two images of
the same scene from
different perspectives,
find the translation T,
between the coordinate system of
the first image shown in red,
and the coordinate system of
the second image shown in green.
In practice, we'd also
want to solve for
the scale and skew due
to different viewpoints.
But we'll keep
this example simple
to stay focused on
the current topic.
To solve this
localization problem,
we need to perform
the following steps.
First, we need to find
the displacement of image
one on the u image axis
of image two.
We call this
displacement t sub u.
Second, we need to
find the displacement
of image one on the
v axis of image two,
and we'll call this displacement
t sub v. We will find
t sub u and t sub v by
matching features
between the images,
and then solving for
the displacements
that best align
these matched features.
We begin by
computing features and
their descriptors in
image one and image two.
We then match
these features using
the brute force matcher we
developed in the previous lesson.
Do you notice
anything a little off
in the results from
our brute force match?
Don't worry. We will come
back to these results
in a little bit.
But first, let's
define the solution of
our problem mathematically in
terms of our matched features.
We denote a feature pair
from images one and two,
as f1 sub i and f2 sub i.
Where i ranges
between zero and n,
the total number of feature pairs
returned by our
matching algorithm.
Each feature in the feature pair
is represented by
its pixel coordinates ui and vi.
Note that every pixel in
the image ones should
coincide with its corresponding
pixel in image two
after application of the
translation t sub q and t sub
v. We can then
use our feature pairs to
model the translation
as follows: the location of
a feature in image
one is translated to
a corresponding location in image
two through model
parameters t sub u and
t sub v. Here
the translations on
the u image axis t sub u,
and the v image axis t sub v,
are the same for
all feature pairs.
Since we assume
a rigid body motion.
Now we can solve for t sub u and
t sub v using
least squares estimation.
The solution to the least
squares problem will be
the values for t
sub u and t sub v
that minimize the sum of
squared errors between
all pairs of pixels.
Now that we have our
localization problem defined,
let's return to the results
of our feature matching.
By observing the feature
locations visually,
it can be seen that
the feature pair in
the purple circles is
actually an incorrect match.
This happens even though we
use the distance ratio method,
and is a common occurrence
in feature matching.
We call such
feature pairs outliers.
Outliers can comprise a large
portion of our feature set,
and typically have
an out-sized negative effect
on our model solution,
especially when using
least squares estimation.
Let us see if we can
identify these outliers and
avoid using them in
our least squares solution.
Outliers can be handled using
a model-based
outlier rejection method
called Random Sample Consensus,
or RANSAC for short.
RANSAC developed by Martin
Fischler and Robert Bolles in
1981 is one of
the most used model-based methods
for outlier rejection
in robotics.
The RANSAC algorithm
proceeds as follows: first,
given a model for identifying
a problem solution from
a set of data points,
find the smallest number M
of data points or
samples needed to compute
the parameters of this model.
In our case,
the problem localization
and the model parameters,
are the t sub u and t sub v
offsets of the least
square solution.
Second, randomly select
M samples from your data.
Third, compute the model
parameters using
only the M samples selected
from your data set.
Forth, use the computed
parameters and count how many
of the remaining data points
agree with this
computed solution.
The accepted points are retained
and referred to as inliers.
Fifth, if the number of
inliers C is satisfactory,
or if the algorithm has iterated
a pre-set maximum number
of iterations,
terminate and return
the computed solution
and the inlier set.
Else, go back to
step two and repeat.
Finally, recompute and return
the model parameters from
the best inlier set.
The one with the largest
number of features.
Now we can revisit
our localization problem and try
to accommodate for the outliers
from our feature matcher.
As a reminder, our model
parameters t sub u and t sub v,
shift each feature pair
equally from the first image
to the second.
To estimate t sub u and t sub v,
we need one pair of features.
Now, let us go through
the RANSAC algorithm
for this problem.
First, we randomly select
one feature pair from
the matched samples.
Now, we need to estimate
our model using
the computed feature pair.
Using the feature
pair, we compute
the displacement along
the u image axis, t sub u,
and the displacement
along the v image axis,
t sub v. We now need to check if
our model is valid by computing
the number of inliers.
Here, we use a tolerance
to determine the inliers,
since it is highly
unlikely that we
satisfy the model with
a 100 percent precision.
Unfortunately,
our first iteration chose
a poor feature match to
compute the model parameters.
When using this model to
compute how many
features in image
one translate to their matched
location in image two,
we notice that none of them do.
Since our number of
inliers is zero,
we go back and choose
another feature pair at random,
and restart the RANSAC process.
Once again, we compute
t sub u and t sub v,
using a new randomly
sampled feature pair
to get our new model parameters.
Using the model, we compute
how many features and image
one translate to
their match in image two.
This time we can see that most of
the features actually
fit this model.
In fact 11 out of 12 features
are considered in inliers.
Since most of
our features are inliers,
we're satisfied with this model,
and we can stop
the RANSAC algorithm.
At this point you should now
understand the proper use
of image features for an
autonomous vehicle applications.
You've learned what outliers are
within the scope of
feature matching,
and how to handle outliers
through the RANSAC algorithm.
Outlier removal is
a key process in
improving robustness when
using feature matching,
and greatly improves the quality
of localization results.
In the next video,
we will use what
we learned so far to estimate
the position of
our autonomous vehicle
using camera image features.
This will help us track
our own vehicles motion
through the environment.
Which is a process known
as Visual Odometry,
and is essential to navigating
smoothly and safely